into the first volume, reserving for the second volume the 
history of Hitler's rise to power and of German achievement 
since that time. Departures from this method have been 
made when a given point seemed explainable in no other 
way. This arrangement will enable the reader, should he so 
desire, to read the notes independently of the text itself. 
Naturally these notes are not designed to form a treatise on 
Hitlerism, but if they were read together with the books 
mentioned by name, they should provide a fairly adequate 
history of the Third Reich* Most of the notes are set in 
close proximity to the passage to which they refer. In a 
few instances, however, it seemed important to write at 
greater length, so that the material appears in the form of 
an appendix to the chapter in question. The separation be- 
tween text and commentary is clearly indicated, so that the 
reader will have no difficulty on that score. 

In conclusion, what should one expect to learn from Mein 
Kampf? Read with a clear eye, the book will show what 
manner of man Der Ftihrer is one who as a boy had 
nothing excepting a passionate belief that Germany must 
obtain a larger place in the sun with the help of the sword 
once wielded so efficiently by Prussian kings; who learned 
to define to his own satisfaction what groups wanted this 
kind of Germany, and what other groups were indifferent 
or opposed to that ideal ; who after the War gathered round 
him all those who refused to concede that defeat neces- 
sarily meant the end of German expansion; and who, 
finally, with their help, got control of the government and 
then set out to mobilize the whole nation for a new advance. 

Before the War he lived in Austria and felt that the 
Habsburgs, by making concessions to the Slavic groups in 
their empire, were putting the German group on a level 
with others and therefore lessening its willingness to dom- 
inate. Therefore, he wanted the German group to get rid 
of the Habsburgs and join forces with the greater Prussian 



INTRODUCTION id 

Germany. After the War he felt that the leaders of the Re- 
public, by seeking to bring about internal reconciliation 
and by making concessions to the Allies, were doing exactly 
what the old Habsburgs had done, excepting that this time 
it was not Austrian Germany but the holy of holies, Prussia 
itself, that was being weakened. To those who said that it 
was war which had sapped the substance of Germany, and 
that another war would end European civilization, he re- 
plied that it was only 'eternal peace' which destroyed peo- 
ples and that neither the individual nor society could escape 
Nature's decree that the fittest alone survive. 

Yet this simple philosophy is by no means the whole 
Hitler. He has added to it the moving force which, re- 
vealed both in his struggle for power and in his use of that 
power since 1933, is the most startling phenomenon of our 
time. Only the leaders of the Mohammedan, French, and 
Russian revolutions have aroused a comparable driving 
power, and at present it dominates Europe. The forces in 
opposition have lacked the clearness of plan, the unity of 
motive, the certainty of conviction, needed to make their 
cause prevail. 

The engines of industry now spin round in trepidation, 
and the engines of war are piled giddily in higher and 
higher pyramids. Already in Europe, the last are all that 
really count the others work to create an illusion and to 
help meet the staggering costs. There is no stopping them 
until there are in the world ideas or ideals which are stronger 
than that contained in Mein Kampf. It is our profound 
conviction that as soon as enough people have seen through 
this book, lived with it until the facts they behold are so 
startlingly vivid that all else is obscure by comparison, the 
tide will begin to turn. 

We have all of us the deepest regard for the German peo- 
ple. Some of us have given a good deal of time and energy 
to the study of just German demands and to the fostering 



xii INTRODUCTION 

of better understanding of the German tradition. None of 
us has abandoned the sincere belief that Germany is des- 
tined to be a great and cherished member of the family of 
peoples. So we have elected to set down without malice, 
yet with all the truth we can muster, the record as we 
see it. 

JOHN CHAMBERLAIN 
SIDNEY B. FAY 
JOHN GUNTHER 
CARLTON J. H. HAYES 
GRAHAM HUTTON 
ALVIN JOHNSON 
t WILLIAM L. LANGER 
WALTER MILLIS 
R. DE ROUSSY DE SALES 
GEORGE N. SHUSTER 